## Angular GitHub Pages Personal Website
This is an Angular App, hosting on GitHub Pages

Please Note that the instructions listed here are meant only for learning and I am not responsible for any error or issues that may occur on your system.  

Use and apply the instructions here at your own risk!  These instructions worked for me but they may not work for you!

The usual / recommended procedure for hosting an Angular App on GitHub Pages has not worked for me so I have devised a solution that may be a bit of a hack, but that is what programming is all about, solving problems.

I am assuming here that there is a desire to use an Angular App as a sort of personal homepage hosted on GitHub Pages.

The steps used for hosting this Angular repo on GitHub Pages are as follows:

### Step 0 is only required once:
#### npm install -g angular-cli-ghpages

Create a repository named using your GitHub user name joined to .github.io e.g. [user-name.github.io] that will give a GitHub Pages URL of the form user-name.github.io

This will generate the needed git commands that you will/may need to copy for later use.

Create an Angular App using the Angular-CLI; develop your App to the required state.

### Make a production build ready for deployment:
#### ng build —prod

Edit the generated index.html file located in the dist folder to arrange in the correct order custom script files used, that needs your HTML DOM content, id(s) and CSS classes.  The correct order is to place custom scripts last in the list of included scripts.

### Initialise Git to get your project tracked by Git: 
#### git init

### Link the local project Git repo to the repo created on GitHub; the following is only a dummy example link: 
#### git remote add origin https://github.com/user-name/user-name.github.io.git

### Add all that is allowed to be tracked by Git:
#### git add –A

### Commit to Git what is being tracked:
#### git commit -m “Commit note”

If you have custom scripts that are used on your site/App make sure that you edit the generated index.html contained in the auto generated dist folder created by your previous ng build —prod command.

If you do not run the ngh command after any required edit to the index.html page, you will get issues with the deployed App because the CLI arranges scripts in an order that will place your scripts first, but your scripts must be last if you are using custom scripts.

### Use the Angular-CLI GitHub Pages command to inject code within your ng build —prod previously generated dist folder code content; run:
#### ngh 

I have also set the base href of my Angular App to <base href=“/“> this is what worked for me.

We are not done yet!  Next step:
Copy the dist folder to a location outside of your current working Git repo project.

You can rename the dist folder to whatever is appropriate for you.
Navigate into this copied dist folder or whatever you may have renamed it. 
### Initialise this dist folder to be tracked by Git: 
#### git init

To ensure that you do not get issues with what is stored on your GitHub repo stored online, delete this repo and recreate it using the same name e.g. [user-name]; this will produce a GitHub Pages URL of user-name.github.io

### Link the local project Git repo to the repo created on GitHub; the following is only a dummy example link:
#### git remote add origin https://github.com/user-name/user-name.github.io.git

### Add all that is allowed to be tracked by Git, which I would imagine should be everything because this is the production distributable folder:
#### git add –A

### Commit to Git what is being tracked:
#### git commit -m “Commit note”

### Deploy the distributable folder content to GitHub:
#### git push -u origin master

### Alternatively, to force and ensure that it works use this command
#### git push -u -f origin master

On a different system, configured differently, the usual/recommended procedure for hosting an Angular App on GitHub Pages may work without using the solution listed here.  However, these steps have worked for me.

No source code is provided here except what was generated by the ng build --prod command, and what is required to run this Angular App as my personal website on GitHub Pages.

### Thank You!

#### Comtact
You can get in touch <a href="https://appswebit.wordpress.com/contact/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">here</a>.
